---
permalink: /about/
title: "Hi!!!"
classes: wide
---

I am Rahul, an engineering graduate from National Institute of Technology, Jaipur and an alumni of Indian Institute of Management, Bangalore, as well. I am pursuing my PhD, in Quantitative Methods, from Indian Institute of Management, Kozhikode. I have a professional career spanning 16 years in corporate and academia, and is still passionate about exploring data using a variety of tools and techniques. I have worked with the likes of Satyam computers, Nokia Siemens and Deloitte Consulting but the urge to explore the uncharted territory led to few start-ups. Few failed and some saw the light of the day!!! Though not very successful in new ventures but bags full of learnings and shortcomings. Currently, I work as a freelancer as well as a founding member of AwesomeStats Consulting; a company, run by few passionate folks, which is primarily focused towards training and consulting in the field of data science. 

For over seven years I am also associated as a consultant at Data Centre and Analytics Lab, IIMB. Here I crossed roads with some of the brightest minds in India. Under the guidance of [Prof. Dinesh Kumar U](https://www.iimb.ac.in/user/70/u-dinesh-kumar){:target="_blank"}, I executed several analytics projects for large corporates. My work in the field of analytics includes predicting credit scoring for co-operative banks of Karnataka; predicting renege/attrition issue for fashion retail company; NPS for a reputed medical equipment manufacturer; predicting design issues for a leading US auto manufacturer; sales and warranty forecasting for a leading auto manufacturer; anomaly detection for a paper-based consumer products company based out of US.  One of our research engagements on fraud analytics & credit scoring model, funded by govt. of India, Ministry of Electronics and IT, is copyrighted (ROC: SW-11742/2018). 

Being associated with a reputed B-school opened channels for teaching as well. I have imparted 400+ sessions in R/Python/Julia in short and long duration programs at IIM Bangalore. As a freelancer, I have undertaken equivalent number of sessions for working professionals in various corporates. Few of the prominent corporate clients, I have worked with are General Electric, Cisco, Deloitte Consulting, United Health Group, HSBC, Flipkart, Fidelity Investments, General Motors, JP Morgan, TVS Motors, Raukten, Hudson Bay etc. 

As a part of the [Data Centre and Analytics Lab, IIMB](https://dcal.iimb.ernet.in/index.html){:target="_blank"} and [Analytics society of India](https://dcal.iimb.ernet.in/analytics-society-india.html){:target="_blank"}, I have also imparted several sessions in [faculty developments programs (FDP) and conducted workshops](https://dcal.iimb.ernet.in/past-events.html){:target="_blank"} in IIM Bangalore, PSG Tech Coimbatore, PSGIM Coimbatore, CIT Coimbatore, LBSIM New Delhi, Christ University Bangalore, IMT Hyderabad, JIM Trichy, SRM Chennai, SDM Mysore. I do have some publications and have also presented papers in several national and international conferences. Few of the prominent ones are:

> * Rahul K., Seth N., Dinesh Kumar U. (2018) Spotting Earnings Manipulation: [Using Machine Learning for Financial Fraud Detection](https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007%2F978-3-030-04191-5_29){:target="_blank"}. In: Bramer M., Petridis M. (eds) Artificial Intelligence XXXV. SGAI 2018. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol 11311. Springer, Cham
> * Invited talk on “[Using Machine Learning Algorithms to Detect Earnings Manipulations](dcal.iimb.ernet.in/baiconf2017/pdf/Conference_Schedule_2017.pdf)” at 5th International Conference on Business Analytics and Intelligence, IIM Bangalore 11th-13th December 2017.
> * Paper on “[Predicting Net Promoter Score (NPS) to Improve Patient Experience at Manipal Hospitals](https://cb.hbsp.harvard.edu/cbmp/product/IMB649-PDF-ENG){:target="_blank"}” published at Harvard Business Publishing, September 2017.
> * Paper on “[Behavioral Modeling to Predict Renege](https://hbr.org/product/hr-analytics-at-scaleneworks-behavioral-modeling-to-predict-renege/IMB551-PDF-ENG){:target="_blank"}” published at Harvard Business Review, January 2016.
> * Paper Presentation at CMMI conference organized by CMMI Institute, 10-11 Dec 2014 at Shenzhen, China.
> * Paper Presentation at SEPG Europe conference organized by SEI Carnegie Mellon University, 5-7 June 2012 at Madrid, Spain. 

Also got an opportunity to co-author a book on "Machine Learning using R" which is in final phases of review with Wiley publication and first edition is expected by July 2021. Though long back in history, I was an IBM DB2 certified professional and ISO 9001:2008 certified lead auditor by DNV India.
